Add article for moralis (#951)
moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam-docs: builders/integrations/indexers/moralis.md

---
title: Interact with Moralis APIs
description: Learn how Moralis' API suite empowers developers to retrieve and leverage various data sets from Moonbeam, Moonriver, and Moonbase Alpha.
---

# Access Moonbeam Data via Moralis APIs

## Introduction {: #introduction }

> As a one-stop solution for blockchain development, [Moralis](https://moralis.io/){target=\_blank} offers a comprehensive platform that empowers developers to create, launch, and scale decentralized applications (dApps) with ease.

Reviewer: Feels like we could use maybe 1 more sentence here introducing Moralis before diving into the features.

```bash
curl --request GET \
--url 'https://deep-index.moralis.io/api/v2.2/0xd4d7fb1f98dD66f6D1f393E8e237AdF74c31F3ea/erc20?chain=moonbeam' \
--header 'accept: application/json' \
--header 'X-API-Key: INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY' 
```

Get the list of owners of an NFT:  

```bash
curl --request GET \
--url 'https://deep-index.moralis.io/api/v2.2/nft/0xfffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff/owners?chain=moonbeam&format=decimal' \
--header 'accept: application/json' \
--header 'X-API-Key: INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY' 
```

For a comprehensive overview of EVM APIs and their capabilities, please refer to Moralis' [official documentation](https://docs.moralis.io/web3-data-api/evm/reference){target=\_blank}.

## Using the Moralis SDK {: #using-the-moralis-SDK }

Moralis has an SDK that allows developers to seamlessly integrate Moralis' API into their backend infrastructure. This SDK offers a wide array of features, including:

- Data querying from EVM APIs  
- Integration of Web3 authentication  
- A collection of utility functions for efficient data transformation and formatting  

Moralis currently provides official SDK support for two primary programming languages:

> - NodeJS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Node.js
```

Sorry! Missed this one before 😬

- Python

> To install Moralis SDK:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install Moralis SDK with the following commands:
```

=== "npm"

    ```bash
    npm install moralis
    ```

=== "yarn"

    ```bash
    yarn add moralis
    ```

=== "pnpm"

    ```bash
    pnpm add moralis
    ```

=== "pip"

    ```bash
    pip install moralis
    ```

Once the SDK is ready, you can leverage it to query Moralis APIs. Here's an example of how to interact with the EVM API using a JSON-RPC interface:

=== "JavaScript"

    ```js
    import Moralis from 'moralis';

    try {
    await Moralis.start({
      apiKey: 'INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY',
    });

    const response = await Moralis.EvmApi.block.getBlock({
      chain: '0x504',
      blockNumberOrHash: '1',
    });

    console.log(response.raw);
    } catch (e) {
    console.error(e);

>     }

Reviewer 2: This is still not formatted correctly. Are you using prettier? We can sync to get your vs code set up properly, just let me know if that would help! 🙂

Author: Is this the correct version? I reinstalled prettier. 
```suggestion
    try {
        await Moralis.start({
            apiKey: 'INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY',
        });
    
        const response = await Moralis.EvmApi.block.getBlock({
            chain: '0x504',
            blockNumberOrHash: '1',
        });
    
        console.log(response.raw);
    } catch (e) {
        console.error(e);
    }
```

    ```

=== "Python"

    ```python
    from moralis import evm_api

    api_key = "INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY"

    params = {"chain": "moonbeam", "block_number_or_hash": "1"}

    result = evm_api.block.get_block(
        api_key=api_key,
        params=params,
    )

    print(result)
    ```

> For more information on advanced features and configurations within the Moralis SDK, please refer to the official [Javascript](https://moralisweb3.github.io/Moralis-JS-SDK/Introduction){target=\_blank} and [Python](https://moralisweb3.github.io/Moralis-Python-SDK/){target=\_blank} documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information on advanced features and configurations within the Moralis SDK, please refer to the official [JavaScript](https://moralisweb3.github.io/Moralis-JS-SDK/Introduction){target=\_blank} and [Python](https://moralisweb3.github.io/Moralis-Python-SDK/){target=\_blank} documentation.
```

## Accessing the Stream API {: #accessing-stream-api }

> The Moralis Streams API is a tool for developers to listen to and react to events happening on blockchains in real time. This API lets you listen for specific events, such as a new transaction being added to a block, a particular smart contract function being called, or an NFT being transferred and delivering the event via Webhook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Moralis Streams API](https://docs.moralis.io/streams-api/evm){target=\_blank} is a tool for developers to listen to and react to events happening on blockchains in real time. This API lets you listen for specific events, such as a new transaction being added to a block, a particular smart contract function being called, or an NFT being transferred and delivering the event via Webhook.
```

Head over to the **Streams** page from your Moralis dashboard and click **Create a new stream** to get started.

![stream API page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-2.webp)

To get started quickly, choose a predefined template. This example focuses on transactions related to xcDOT. Select the **Contract Activity** template to listen for events related specifically to xcDOT.

![template selection page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-3.webp)

On the next page, enter the following details:

> 1. Enter the smart contract address for [xcDot](https://moonscan.io/token/0xffffffff1fcacbd218edc0eba20fc2308c778080){target=\_blank}: 0xFfFFfFff1FcaCBd218EDc0EbA20Fc2308C778080

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Enter the smart contract address for [xcDOT](https://moonscan.io/token/0xffffffff1fcacbd218edc0eba20fc2308c778080){target=\_blank}: 0xFfFFfFff1FcaCBd218EDc0EbA20Fc2308C778080
```

> 1. Enter the smart contract address for [xcDOT](https://moonscan.io/token/0xffffffff1fcacbd218edc0eba20fc2308c778080){target=\_blank}: 0xFfFFfFff1FcaCBd218EDc0EbA20Fc2308C778080

Reviewer: I would put the xcDOT address in quotes or do a 
```
address
``` 

so that it can be copy/pasted easily

2. Select Moonbeam from the available network options. Moralis supports listening to events on Moonbeam, Moonriver, and Moonbase Alpha 
3. Customize the events you want to receive. For this example, choose All contract events. You may also test the stream to confirm it captures the needed data
4. Connect the stream to an endpoint to receive updates from Moralis

> 5. Click Save to activate your stream

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Click **Save** to activate your stream
```

![details input page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-4.webp)

> All set. Once you activate your stream, it will be added to your list of streams on your dashboard:

Reviewer: Try to avoid sentence fragments like All set. Now you're all set or something like that would be fine.

![stream API end page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-5.webp)

## Accessing the RPC API {: #accessing-rpc-api }

To use the Moralis Moonbeam RPC endpoint, visit the **Nodes** page, click **Create Node**, and take the following steps:

1. Select **Moonbeam** as the protocol
2. Choose **Mainnet** as the chain
3. Click **Create Node**

![RPC API setup page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-5.webp)

Your RPC endpoint will be generated for you to easily copy, and your Moonbeam node will be up and running in seconds, ready to handle your RPC requests. You can view your nodes at any time from your dashboard.

![node ready page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-7.webp)

> And that's it! Hope this guide has been helpful. For advance features and more complex use cases, refer to [the official Moralis documentation](https://docs.moralis.io/) for further details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And that's it! Hope this guide has been helpful. For advanced features and more complex use cases, refer to [the official Moralis documentation](https://docs.moralis.io/) for further details.
```

---
title: Moralis
description: Learn how to build on the Moonbeam network with Moralis' API suite.
---

# Introduction to Moralis

## Introduction {: #introduction }

As a one-stop solution for blockchain development, [Moralis](https://moralis.io/) offers a comprehensive platform that empowers developers to create, launch, and scale decentralized applications (dApps) with ease. This guide will show you how to access the API endpoints for Moonbeam using curl commands and JavaScript and Python snippets.

> Moralis's offerings are structured into four primary categories of API services:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Moralis's offerings are structured into four primary categories of API services-
```

- **EVM API**: EVM API allows developers to query essential data for Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)-compatible blockchains. Moralis provides dedicated APIs for four key areas: NFTs, tokens, wallets, and general blockchain information.

> - **Streams API**: Real-time data is crucial in the fast-paced blockchain world. Moralis's Streams API enables developers to listen for real-time events on the chain, you can listen for when a new event is emitted in your contract or when a wallet address does an NFT transfer or a transaction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Streams API**: The Streams API enables developers to listen for on-chain events, such as smart contract event emissions, in real-time. Popular use cases include real-time wallet notifications, asset monitoring, and gaming event notifications.
```

- **RPC API**: The RPC API offers a secure and reliable connection to various blockchain networks. It provides a high-performance gateway for developers to interact with blockchain nodes, ensuring stable and efficient communication between dApps and the blockchain.

- **Auth API**: Moralis's Auth API offers a secure method for implementing wallet-based authentication in dApps. This service simplifies the often complex process of verifying user identities and managing sessions in a decentralized context.

--8<-- 'text/_disclaimers/third-party-content-intro.md'

> 

Reviewer 3: Style Guide: If users need to complete specific tasks or have certain items before going through the page, include a "Check Prerequisites" section

->This section addresses the need for a Moralis account and API key before starting the steps in the guide.

Check out the "Checking Prerequisites" section for subsquid as an example: https://docs.moonbeam.network/builders/integrations/indexers/subsquid/

## Sign up with Moralis {: #sign-up-with-moralis }

Head over to the [signup page](https://admin.moralis.io/register) to create an account. Once you're in, navigate to the API keys section. There, you can generate your own unique API key and be sure to copy it for future use.

![Moralis API key](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-1.webp)

## Querying Moralis API {: #querying-moralis-api }

With the API key, you are ready to try out Moralis' REST APIs. In this example, we'll delve into the EVM API, which allows developers to retrieve information using a JSON RPC interface. Here are some examples of how it works:

> Getting the token balance of a wallet:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Get the token balance of a wallet:
```

```bash
curl --request GET \
 --url 'https://deep-index.moralis.io/api/v2.2/0xd4d7fb1f98dD66f6D1f393E8e237AdF74c31F3ea/erc20?chain=moonbeam' \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
 --header 'X-API-Key: INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY' 
```

> Getting the list of owners of an NFT:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Get the list of owners of an NFT:
```

```bash
curl --request GET \
 --url 'https://deep-index.moralis.io/api/v2.2/nft/0xfffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff/owners?chain=moonbeam&format=decimal' \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
 --header 'X-API-Key: INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY' 
```

For a comprehensive overview of the available APIs and their capabilities, please refer to Moralis' [official documentation](https://docs.moralis.io/web3-data-api/evm/reference).

## Moralis SDK {: #moralis-SDK }

Moralis has an SDK that allows developers to seamlessly integrate Moralis' API into their backend infrastructure. This SDK offers a wide array of features, including:

> 1. Data querying from both EVM and Solana APIs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Data querying from both EVM and Solana APIs
```

> 2. Integration of Web3 authentication

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Integration of Web3 authentication
```

> 3. A collection of utility functions for efficient data transformation and formatting

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A collection of utility functions for efficient data transformation and formatting
```

Moralis currently provides official SDK support for two primary programming languages:

- NodeJS
- Python

To install Moralis SDK:

=== "npm"

    ```bash
    npm install moralis
    ```

=== "yarn"

    ```bash
    yarn add moralis
    ```

=== "pnpm"

    ```bash
    pnpm add moralis
    ```

=== "pip"

    ```bash
    pip install moralis
    ```

> Once the SDK is ready, you can leverage it to query Moralis's APIs. Here's an example of how to interact with the EVM API using a JSON RPC interface:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the SDK is ready, you can leverage it to query Moralis APIs. Here's an example of how to interact with the EVM API using a JSON RPC interface:
```

        try {
          await Moralis.start({
            apiKey: "INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY"
    });

          const response = await Moralis.EvmApi.block.getBlock({
            "chain": "0x504",
            "blockNumberOrHash": "1"
    });

          console.log(response.raw);
    } catch (e) {
          console.error(e);
    }
    ```

=== "Python"

    ```python
    from moralis import evm_api

    api_key = "INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY"

    params = {
          "chain": "moonbeam",
          "block_number_or_hash": "1"
    }

    result = evm_api.block.get_block(
          api_key=api_key,
          params=params,
    )

        print(result)
    ```

## Stream API {: #stream-api }

Moralis Streams API is a tool for developers to listen to and react to events happening on blockchains in real time. This API lets you listen for specific events, such as a new transaction being added to a block, a particular smart contract function being called, or an NFT being transferred and delivering the event via Webhook.

Head over to the Streams page within Moralis and click "Create a new stream" to get started.

![stream API page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-2.webp)

> To get started quickly, let's choose a predefined template here. In this example, we're interested in xcDOT transactions. Select the "Contract Activity" template. This will allow us to easily listen for events related specifically to xcDOT.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use a predefined template to help you get started quickly. This example listens for xcDOT transactions. Select the **Contract Activity** template, allowing us to listen for events emitted from the xcDOT contract.
```

![template selection page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-3.webp)

> On the next page, enter the following details:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the next page, enter the following details-
```

> - Smart Contract Address: Paste 0xFfFFfFff1FcaCBd218EDc0EbA20Fc2308C778080 for [xcDot](https://moonscan.io/token/0xffffffff1fcacbd218edc0eba20fc2308c778080)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Smart Contract Address for [xcDot](https://moonscan.io/token/0xffffffff1fcacbd218edc0eba20fc2308c778080): 0xFfFFfFff1FcaCBd218EDc0EbA20Fc2308C778080 
```

- Network: Select Moonbeam from the available options.

> Moralis lets you listen to events on Moonbeam, Moonriver, and Moonbase Alpha.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Moralis supports listening to events on Moonbeam, Moonriver, and Moonbase Alpha.
```

![details input page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-4.webp)

> Next, customize what events you want to receive. For this example, simply choose "All contract events." 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, customize the events you want to receive. For this example, choose "All contract events." 
```

> You may also test the stream to confirm it's capturing the data you need.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You may also test the stream to confirm it captures the needed data.
```

![event selection and stream test page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-5.webp)

> Next, connect the stream to an endpoint which will be used to receive updates from Moralis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, you can connect the stream to an endpoint to receive updates from Moralis.
```

![webhook setup page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-6.webp)

> All set! Once you activate your stream, you'll see a screen like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All set. Once you activate your stream, you'll see a screen like this:
```

![stream API end page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-7.webp)

## RPC API {: #rpc-api }

> Moralis also offers node services for Moonbeam networks. To leverage the Moralis Moonbeam RPC endpoint, simply head over to the Nodes page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Moralis also offers node services for Moonbeam networks. To use the Moralis Moonbeam RPC endpoint, visit the Nodes page.
```

---
title: Moralis
description: Learn how to build on the Moonbeam network with Moralis' API suite.
---

# Index Moonbeam with Moralis

## Introduction {: #introduction }

As a one-stop solution for blockchain development, [Moralis](https://moralis.io/) offers a comprehensive platform that empowers developers to create, launch, and scale decentralized applications (dApps) with ease. This guide will show you how to access the API endpoints for Moonbeam using curl commands and JavaScript and Python snippets.

> Moralis' offerings are structured into four primary categories of API services-

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Moralis' offerings are structured into four primary categories of API services:
```

Author: Understood. I have undid those changes. It is all good!

> - **EVM API** - EVM API allows developers to query essential data for Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)-compatible blockchains. Moralis provides dedicated APIs for four key areas: NFTs, tokens, wallets, and general blockchain information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **EVM API** - The EVM API allows developers to query essential data for Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)-compatible blockchains. Moralis provides dedicated APIs for four key areas: NFTs, tokens, wallets, and general blockchain information
```

Reviewer 2: @wuzhong-papermoon this would need to be lower-case "the"

- **Streams API**: The Streams API enables developers to listen for on-chain events, such as smart contract event emissions, in real-time. Popular use cases include real-time wallet notifications, asset monitoring, and gaming event notifications.

- **RPC API**: The RPC API offers a secure and reliable connection to various blockchain networks. It provides a high-performance gateway for developers to interact with blockchain nodes, ensuring stable and efficient communication between dApps and the blockchain.

> - **Auth API**: Moralis's Auth API offers a secure method for implementing wallet-based authentication in dApps. This service simplifies the often complex process of verifying user identities and managing sessions in a decentralized context.

Author: It is part of the APIs they offer, but it is not really related to Moonbeam. What is your suggestion?

> - **Auth API**: Moralis's Auth API offers a secure method for implementing wallet-based authentication in dApps. This service simplifies the often complex process of verifying user identities and managing sessions in a decentralized context.

Reviewer 2: Then let's not mention it initially

--8<-- 'text/_disclaimers/third-party-content-intro.md'

## Checking prerequisites {: #checking-prerequisites }

To access the endpoint, a Moralis account and API key are required.

Head over to the [signup page](https://admin.moralis.io/register) to create an account. Once you're in, navigate to the API keys section. There, you can generate your own unique API key and be sure to copy it for future use.

> ![Moralis API key](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-1.webp)

Reviewer 2: All of these images should should show your browser window and therefore should not be cropped vertically

> ## Querying Moralis API {: #querying-moralis-api }

Reviewer 2: This section seems specific to the EVM API, so I'd change the title. Also, when you look at the titles, you should use the same format like "Querying the EVM API", "Using the Moralis SDK", etc.

> With the API key, you can try Moralis' REST APIs. The following examples show how the EVM API works-

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With the API key, you can try Moralis' REST APIs. The following examples show how the EVM API works:
```

Get the token balance of a wallet:  

```bash

> curl --request GET \

Reviewer 2: can you please format these? the `--url` and `--header` lines should be vertically aligned

 --url 'https://deep-index.moralis.io/api/v2.2/0xd4d7fb1f98dD66f6D1f393E8e237AdF74c31F3ea/erc20?chain=moonbeam' \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
 --header 'X-API-Key: INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY' 
```

Get the list of owners of an NFT:  

```bash
curl --request GET \
 --url 'https://deep-index.moralis.io/api/v2.2/nft/0xfffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff/owners?chain=moonbeam&format=decimal' \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
 --header 'X-API-Key: INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY' 
```

For a comprehensive overview of the available APIs and their capabilities, please refer to Moralis' [official documentation](https://docs.moralis.io/web3-data-api/evm/reference).

> ## Moralis SDK {: #moralis-SDK }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Using the Moralis SDK {: #moralis-SDK }
```

> Moralis has an SDK that allows developers to seamlessly integrate Moralis' API into their backend infrastructure. This SDK offers a wide array of features, including-

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Moralis has an SDK that allows developers to seamlessly integrate Moralis' API into their backend infrastructure. This SDK offers a wide array of features, including:
```

> - Data querying from both EVM and Solana APIs  

Reviewer 2: We don't need to mention Solana

- Integration of Web3 authentication  
- A collection of utility functions for efficient data transformation and formatting  

> Moralis currently provides official SDK support for two primary programming languages-

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Moralis currently provides official SDK support for two primary programming languages:
```

- NodeJS
- Python

To install Moralis SDK:

=== "npm"

    ```bash
    npm install moralis
    ```

=== "yarn"

    ```bash
    yarn add moralis
    ```

=== "pnpm"

    ```bash
    pnpm add moralis
    ```

=== "pip"

    ```bash
    pip install moralis
    ```

> Once the SDK is ready, you can leverage it to query Moralis APIs. Here's an example of how to interact with the EVM API using a JSON RPC interface:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the SDK is ready, you can leverage it to query Moralis' APIs. Here's an example of how to interact with the EVM API using a JSON-RPC interface:
```

=== "Javascript"

    ```js
    import Moralis from 'moralis';

        try {
          await Moralis.start({
            apiKey: "INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY"
    });

          const response = await Moralis.EvmApi.block.getBlock({
            "chain": "0x504",
            "blockNumberOrHash": "1"
    });

          console.log(response.raw);
    } catch (e) {
          console.error(e);
    }

>     ```

Reviewer 2: This needs to be formatted with prettier

=== "Python"

    ```python
    from moralis import evm_api

    api_key = "INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY"

    params = {
          "chain": "moonbeam",
          "block_number_or_hash": "1"
    }

    result = evm_api.block.get_block(
          api_key=api_key,
          params=params,
    )

>         print(result)

Reviewer 2: this needs to be formatted with the python black formatter

    ```

> 

Reviewer 2: I think we should add a sentence or two wrapping up the section and instructing users on where they can find more information on the SDK and the functions it exposes

## Stream API {: #stream-api }

> Moralis Streams API is a tool for developers to listen to and react to events happening on blockchains in real time. This API lets you listen for specific events, such as a new transaction being added to a block, a particular smart contract function being called, or an NFT being transferred and delivering the event via Webhook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Moralis Streams API is a tool for developers to listen to and react to events happening on blockchains in real time. This API lets you listen for specific events, such as a new transaction being added to a block, a particular smart contract function being called, or an NFT being transferred and delivering the event via webhook.
```

> Head over to the Streams page within Moralis and click **Create a new stream** to get started.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Head over to the **Streams** page from your Moralis dashboard and click **Create a new stream** to get started.
```

![stream API page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-2.webp)

> To get started quickly, let's choose a predefined template here. In this example, we're interested in xcDOT transactions. Select the "Contract Activity" template. This will allow us to easily listen for events related specifically to xcDOT.

Reviewer 2: Avoid using "let's", "we", "us", etc. - use "you" instead. also, make sure that UI elements are in bold instead of quotes

![template selection page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-3.webp)

> On the next page, enter the following details-  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the next page, enter the following details:
```

- Smart Contract Address for [xcDot](https://moonscan.io/token/0xffffffff1fcacbd218edc0eba20fc2308c778080): 0xFfFFfFff1FcaCBd218EDc0EbA20Fc2308C778080
- Network: Select Moonbeam from the available options.

> Moralis supports listening to events on Moonbeam, Moonriver, and Moonbase Alpha.  

Reviewer 2: Let's convert this to steps and align it with the steps they have on their UI. And then you can combine images 4-6 into a single image.

You should use snagit. I just put together some docs on how to use it. I'll share the page in slack

> 2. Select Moonbeam from the available network options. Moralis supports listening to events on Moonbeam, Moonriver, and Moonbase Alpha 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Moonbeam** from the available network options. Moralis supports listening to events on Moonbeam, Moonriver, and Moonbase Alpha 
```

![details input page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-4.webp)

Next, customize the events you want to receive. For this example, choose "All contract events." 

You may also test the stream to confirm it captures the needed data.  

![event selection and stream test page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-5.webp)

Next, you can connect the stream to an endpoint to receive updates from Moralis.

![webhook setup page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-6.webp)

> All set. Once you activate your stream, you'll see a screen like this:

Reviewer 2: to keep our documentation accessible, you should describe what the screen looks like instead of relying solely on the image. so instead say "Once you activate your stream, it will be added to your list of streams on your dashboard"

![stream API end page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-7.webp)

## RPC API {: #rpc-api }

> Moralis also offers node services for Moonbeam networks. To use the Moralis Moonbeam RPC endpoint, visit the Nodes page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Moralis also offers node services for Moonbeam networks. To use the Moralis Moonbeam RPC endpoint, visit the **Nodes** page.
```

> Select **Moonbeam** and **Mainnet** here to get started. Remember, Moralis also supports Moonriver and Moonbase Alpha.

Reviewer 2: Going off of the previous sentence, you could do
 
To use the Moralis Moonbeam RPC endpoint, visit the **Nodes** page, click **Create Node**, and take the following steps:
 
1. Select **Moonbeam** as the protocol
2. Choose **Mainnet** as the chain 
3. Click **Create Node**

<INSERT A SINGLE PICTURE OF ALL OF THESE STEPS>

Your RPC endpoint will be generated for you to easily copy, and your Moonbeam node will be up and running in seconds, ready to handle your RPC requests. You can view your nodes at any time from your dashboard.

<INSERT PICTURE 9>

![RPC API setup page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-8.webp)

> Click **Create Node**, and your Moonbeam node will be up and running in seconds, ready to handle your RPC requests.

Reviewer 2: oh just seeing this now, these instructions are a bit backwards

> ![node ready page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-9.webp)

Reviewer 2: There should be a sentence to wrap up the guide like a "that's it! for more info see their docs" type thing

And also there should be a third-party disclaimer at the end of the guide

> ![RPC API setup page](/images/builders/integrations/indexers/moralis/moralis-5.webp)

Reviewer 2: This image doesn't match with the steps above

---
title: Interact with Moralis APIs
description: Learn how Moralis' API suite empowers developers to retrieve and leverage various data sets from Moonbeam, Moonriver, and Moonbase.
---

# Access Moonbeam data via Moralis APIs

## Introduction {: #introduction }

As a one-stop solution for blockchain development, [Moralis](https://moralis.io/){target=\_blank} offers a comprehensive platform that empowers developers to create, launch, and scale decentralized applications (dApps) with ease.

> Moralis' offerings are structured into four primary categories of API services:

Author: ```suggestion
Moralis' offerings are structured into these primary categories of API services:
```

--header 'accept: application/json' \
--header 'X-API-Key: INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY' 
```

For a comprehensive overview of EVM APIs and their capabilities, please refer to Moralis' [official documentation](https://docs.moralis.io/web3-data-api/evm/reference){target=\_blank}.

## Using the Moralis SDK {: #using-the-moralis-SDK }

Moralis has an SDK that allows developers to seamlessly integrate Moralis' API into their backend infrastructure. This SDK offers a wide array of features, including:

- Data querying from EVM APIs  
- Integration of Web3 authentication  
- A collection of utility functions for efficient data transformation and formatting  

Moralis currently provides official SDK support for two primary programming languages:

- NodeJS
- Python

To install Moralis SDK:

=== "npm"

    ```bash
    npm install moralis
    ```

=== "yarn"

    ```bash
    yarn add moralis
    ```

=== "pnpm"

    ```bash
    pnpm add moralis
    ```

=== "pip"

    ```bash
    pip install moralis
    ```

Once the SDK is ready, you can leverage it to query Moralis APIs. Here's an example of how to interact with the EVM API using a JSON-RPC interface:

=== "Javascript"

    ```js

>     import Moralis from "moralis";
> 
>     try {
>     await Moralis.start({
>         apiKey: "INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY",
>     });
> 
>     const response = await Moralis.EvmApi.block.getBlock({
>         chain: "0x504",
>         blockNumberOrHash: "1",
>     });
> 
>     console.log(response.raw);
>     } catch (e) {
>     console.error(e);
>     }

Author: ```suggestion
    import Moralis from 'moralis';

    try {
    await Moralis.start({
      apiKey: 'INSERT_YOUR_API_KEY',
    });

    const response = await Moralis.EvmApi.block.getBlock({
      chain: '0x504',
      blockNumberOrHash: '1',
    });

    console.log(response.raw);
    } catch (e) {
    console.error(e);
    }
```
